1 The Lord said to Moses, 2 “Speak to the Israelites and say to them:
 ‘After you enter the land I am giving you as a home 3 and you present to the Lord food offerings from the herd or the flock, as an aroma pleasing to the Lord—whether burnt offerings or sacrifices, for special vows or freewill offerings or festival offerings— 4 then the person who brings an offering shall present to the Lord a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah[a] of the finest flour mixed with a quarter of a hin[b] of olive oil.
 5 With each lamb for the burnt offering or the sacrifice, prepare a quarter of a hin of wine as a drink offering.
 6 “‘With a ram prepare a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah[c] of the finest flour mixed with a third of a hin[d] of olive oil, 7 and a third of a hin of wine as a drink offering.
 Offer it as an aroma pleasing to the Lord.
 8 “‘When you prepare a young bull as a burnt offering or sacrifice, for a special vow or a fellowship offering to the Lord, 9 bring with the bull a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah[e] of the finest flour mixed with half a hin[f] of olive oil, 10 and also bring half a hin of wine as a drink offering.
 This will be a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord.
 11 Each bull or ram, each lamb or young goat, is to be prepared in this manner.
 12 Do this for each one, for as many as you prepare.
 13 “‘Everyone who is native-born must do these things in this way when they present a food offering as an aroma pleasing to the Lord.
 14 For the generations to come, whenever a foreigner or anyone else living among you presents a food offering as an aroma pleasing to the Lord, they must do exactly as you do.
 15 The community is to have the same rules for you and for the foreigner residing among you; this is a lasting ordinance for the generations to come.
 You and the foreigner shall be the same before the Lord:
 16 The same laws and regulations will apply both to you and to the foreigner residing among you.
’” 17 The Lord said to Moses, 18 “Speak to the Israelites and say to them:
 ‘When you enter the land to which I am taking you 19 and you eat the food of the land, present a portion as an offering to the Lord.
 20 Present a loaf from the first of your ground meal and present it as an offering from the threshing floor.
 21 Throughout the generations to come you are to give this offering to the Lord from the first of your ground meal.
 Offerings for Unintentional Sins 22 “‘Now if you as a community unintentionally fail to keep any of these commands the Lord gave Moses— 23 any of the Lord’s commands to you through him, from the day the Lord gave them and continuing through the generations to come— 24 and if this is done unintentionally without the community being aware of it, then the whole community is to offer a young bull for a burnt offering as an aroma pleasing to the Lord, along with its prescribed grain offering and drink offering, and a male goat for a sin offering.
[g] 25 The priest is to make atonement for the whole Israelite community, and they will be forgiven, for it was not intentional and they have presented to the Lord for their wrong a food offering and a sin offering.
 26 The whole Israelite community and the foreigners residing among them will be forgiven, because all the people were involved in the unintentional wrong.
 27 “‘But if just one person sins unintentionally, that person must bring a year-old female goat for a sin offering.
 28 The priest is to make atonement before the Lord for the one who erred by sinning unintentionally, and when atonement has been made, that person will be forgiven.
 29 One and the same law applies to everyone who sins unintentionally, whether a native-born Israelite or a foreigner residing among you.
 30 “‘But anyone who sins defiantly, whether native-born or foreigner, blasphemes the Lord and must be cut off from the people of Israel.
 31 Because they have despised the Lord’s word and broken his commands, they must surely be cut off; their guilt remains on them.
’” The Sabbath-Breaker Put to Death 32 While the Israelites were in the wilderness, a man was found gathering wood on the Sabbath day.
 33 Those who found him gathering wood brought him to Moses and Aaron and the whole assembly, 34 and they kept him in custody, because it was not clear what should be done to him.
 35 Then the Lord said to Moses, “The man must die.
 The whole assembly must stone him outside the camp.
” 36 So the assembly took him outside the camp and stoned him to death, as the Lord commanded Moses.
 Tassels on Garments 37 The Lord said to Moses, 38 “Speak to the Israelites and say to them:
 ‘Throughout the generations to come you are to make tassels on the corners of your garments, with a blue cord on each tassel.
 39 You will have these tassels to look at and so you will remember all the commands of the Lord, that you may obey them and not prostitute yourselves by chasing after the lusts of your own hearts and eyes.
 40 Then you will remember to obey all my commands and will be consecrated to your God.
 41 I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt to be your God.
 I am the Lord your God.
’” 


