1 A prophecy concerning Nineveh.
 The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.
 The Lord’s Anger Against Nineveh 2 The Lord is a jealous and avenging God; the Lord takes vengeance and is filled with wrath.
 The Lord takes vengeance on his foes and vents his wrath against his enemies.
 3 The Lord is slow to anger but great in power; the Lord will not leave the guilty unpunished.
 His way is in the whirlwind and the storm, and clouds are the dust of his feet.
 4 He rebukes the sea and dries it up; he makes all the rivers run dry.
 Bashan and Carmel wither and the blossoms of Lebanon fade.
 5 The mountains quake before him and the hills melt away.
 The earth trembles at his presence, the world and all who live in it.
 6 Who can withstand his indignation? Who can endure his fierce anger? His wrath is poured out like fire; the rocks are shattered before him.
 7 The Lord is good, a refuge in times of trouble.
 He cares for those who trust in him, 8 but with an overwhelming flood he will make an end of Nineveh; he will pursue his foes into the realm of darkness.
 9 Whatever they plot against the Lord he will bring[a] to an end; trouble will not come a second time.
 10 They will be entangled among thorns and drunk from their wine; they will be consumed like dry stubble.
[b] 11 From you, Nineveh, has one come forth who plots evil against the Lord and devises wicked plans.
 12 This is what the Lord says:
 “Although they have allies and are numerous, they will be destroyed and pass away.
 Although I have afflicted you, Judah, I will afflict you no more.
 13 Now I will break their yoke from your neck and tear your shackles away.
” 14 The Lord has given a command concerning you, Nineveh:
 “You will have no descendants to bear your name.
 I will destroy the images and idols that are in the temple of your gods.
 I will prepare your grave, for you are vile.
” 15 Look, there on the mountains, the feet of one who brings good news, who proclaims peace! Celebrate your festivals, Judah, and fulfill your vows.
 No more will the wicked invade you; they will be completely destroyed.
[c] 


