1 After this, Jesus went around in Galilee.
 He did not want[a] to go about in Judea because the Jewish leaders there were looking for a way to kill him.
 2 But when the Jewish Festival of Tabernacles was near, 3 Jesus’ brothers said to him, “Leave Galilee and go to Judea, so that your disciples there may see the works you do.
 4 No one who wants to become a public figure acts in secret.
 Since you are doing these things, show yourself to the world.
” 5 For even his own brothers did not believe in him.
 6 Therefore Jesus told them, “My time is not yet here; for you any time will do.
 7 The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify that its works are evil.
 8 You go to the festival.
 I am not[b] going up to this festival, because my time has not yet fully come.
” 9 After he had said this, he stayed in Galilee.
 10 However, after his brothers had left for the festival, he went also, not publicly, but in secret.
 11 Now at the festival the Jewish leaders were watching for Jesus and asking, “Where is he?” 12 Among the crowds there was widespread whispering about him.
 Some said, “He is a good man.
” Others replied, “No, he deceives the people.
” When Jesus spoke again to the people, he said, “I am the light of the world.
 Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.
” 13 The Pharisees challenged him, “Here you are, appearing as your own witness; your testimony is not valid.
” But no one would say anything publicly about him for fear of the leaders.
 Jesus Teaches at the Festival 14 Not until halfway through the festival did Jesus go up to the temple courts and begin to teach.
 Jesus answered, “Even if I testify on my own behalf, my testimony is valid, for I know where I came from and where I am going.
 But you have no idea where I come from or where I am going.
 15 You judge by human standards; I pass judgment on no one.
 The Jews there were amazed and asked, “How did this man get such learning without having been taught?” 16 Jesus answered, “My teaching is not my own.
 It comes from the one who sent me.
 But if I do judge, my decisions are true, because I am not alone.
 I stand with the Father, who sent me.
 17 In your own Law it is written that the testimony of two witnesses is true.
 Anyone who chooses to do the will of God will find out whether my teaching comes from God or whether I speak on my own.
 18 Whoever speaks on their own does so to gain personal glory, but he who seeks the glory of the one who sent him is a man of truth; there is nothing false about him.
 I am one who testifies for myself; my other witness is the Father, who sent me.
” 19 Then they asked him, “Where is your father?” “You do not know me or my Father,” Jesus replied.
 “If you knew me, you would know my Father also.
” Has not Moses given you the law? Yet not one of you keeps the law.
 Why are you trying to kill me?” 20 “You are demon-possessed,” the crowd answered.
 “Who is trying to kill you?” He spoke these words while teaching in the temple courts near the place where the offerings were put.
 Yet no one seized him, because his hour had not yet come.
 Dispute Over Who Jesus Is 21 Once more Jesus said to them, “I am going away, and you will look for me, and you will die in your sin.
 Where I go, you cannot come.
” Jesus said to them, “I did one miracle, and you are all amazed.
 22 Yet, because Moses gave you circumcision (though actually it did not come from Moses, but from the patriarchs), you circumcise a boy on the Sabbath.
 This made the Jews ask, “Will he kill himself? Is that why he says, ‘Where I go, you cannot come’ ?” 23 But he continued, “You are from below; I am from above.
 You are of this world; I am not of this world.
 Now if a boy can be circumcised on the Sabbath so that the law of Moses may not be broken, why are you angry with me for healing a man’s whole body on the Sabbath? 24 Stop judging by mere appearances, but instead judge correctly.
” Division Over Who Jesus Is I told you that you would die in your sins; if you do not believe that I am he, you will indeed die in your sins.
” 25 “Who are you?” they asked.
 “Just what I have been telling you from the beginning,” Jesus replied.
 At that point some of the people of Jerusalem began to ask, “Isn’t this the man they are trying to kill? 26 Here he is, speaking publicly, and they are not saying a word to him.
 Have the authorities really concluded that he is the Messiah? “I have much to say in judgment of you.
 But he who sent me is trustworthy, and what I have heard from him I tell the world.
” 27 They did not understand that he was telling them about his Father.
 But we know where this man is from; when the Messiah comes, no one will know where he is from.
” 28 Then Jesus, still teaching in the temple courts, cried out, “Yes, you know me, and you know where I am from.
 I am not here on my own authority, but he who sent me is true.
 You do not know him, So Jesus said, “When you have lifted up[c] the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he and that I do nothing on my own but speak just what the Father has taught me.
 29 The one who sent me is with me; he has not left me alone, for I always do what pleases him.
” but I know him because I am from him and he sent me.
” 30 At this they tried to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come.
 Even as he spoke, many believed in him.
 Dispute Over Whose Children Jesus’ Opponents Are 31 To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, “If you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples.
 Still, many in the crowd believed in him.
 They said, “When the Messiah comes, will he perform more signs than this man?” 32 The Pharisees heard the crowd whispering such things about him.
 Then the chief priests and the Pharisees sent temple guards to arrest him.
 Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
” 33 They answered him, “We are Abraham’s descendants and have never been slaves of anyone.
 How can you say that we shall be set free?” Jesus said, “I am with you for only a short time, and then I am going to the one who sent me.
 34 You will look for me, but you will not find me; and where I am, you cannot come.
” Jesus replied, “Very truly I tell you, everyone who sins is a slave to sin.
 35 Now a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it forever.
 The Jews said to one another, “Where does this man intend to go that we cannot find him? Will he go where our people live scattered among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? 36 What did he mean when he said, ‘You will look for me, but you will not find me,’ and ‘Where I am, you cannot come’ ?” So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.
 37 I know that you are Abraham’s descendants.
 Yet you are looking for a way to kill me, because you have no room for my word.
 On the last and greatest day of the festival, Jesus stood and said in a loud voice, “Let anyone who is thirsty come to me and drink.
 38 Whoever believes in me, as Scripture has said, rivers of living water will flow from within them.
”[d] I am telling you what I have seen in the Father’s presence, and you are doing what you have heard from your father.
[e] ” 39 “Abraham is our father,” they answered.
 “If you were Abraham’s children,” said Jesus, “then you would[f] do what Abraham did.
 By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive.
 Up to that time the Spirit had not been given, since Jesus had not yet been glorified.
 40 On hearing his words, some of the people said, “Surely this man is the Prophet.
” As it is, you are looking for a way to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God.
 Abraham did not do such things.
 41 You are doing the works of your own father.
” “We are not illegitimate children,” they protested.
 “The only Father we have is God himself.
” Others said, “He is the Messiah.
” Still others asked, “How can the Messiah come from Galilee? 42 Does not Scripture say that the Messiah will come from David’s descendants and from Bethlehem, the town where David lived?” Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love me, for I have come here from God.
 I have not come on my own; God sent me.
 43 Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say.
 Thus the people were divided because of Jesus.
 44 Some wanted to seize him, but no one laid a hand on him.
 Unbelief of the Jewish Leaders You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father’s desires.
 He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him.
 When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
 45 Yet because I tell the truth, you do not believe me! Finally the temple guards went back to the chief priests and the Pharisees, who asked them, “Why didn’t you bring him in?” 46 “No one ever spoke the way this man does,” the guards replied.
 Can any of you prove me guilty of sin? If I am telling the truth, why don’t you believe me? 47 Whoever belongs to God hears what God says.
 The reason you do not hear is that you do not belong to God.
” Jesus’ Claims About Himself “You mean he has deceived you also?” the Pharisees retorted.
 48 “Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed in him? The Jews answered him, “Aren’t we right in saying that you are a Samaritan and demon-possessed?” 49 “I am not possessed by a demon,” said Jesus, “but I honor my Father and you dishonor me.
 No! But this mob that knows nothing of the law—there is a curse on them.
” 50 Nicodemus, who had gone to Jesus earlier and who was one of their own number, asked, I am not seeking glory for myself; but there is one who seeks it, and he is the judge.
 51 Very truly I tell you, whoever obeys my word will never see death.
” “Does our law condemn a man without first hearing him to find out what he has been doing?” 52 They replied, “Are you from Galilee, too? Look into it, and you will find that a prophet does not come out of Galilee.
” Dispute Over Jesus’ Testimony At this they exclaimed, “Now we know that you are demon-possessed! Abraham died and so did the prophets, yet you say that whoever obeys your word will never taste death.
 53 Are you greater than our father Abraham? He died, and so did the prophets.
 Who do you think you are?” 54 Jesus replied, “If I glorify myself, my glory means nothing.
 My Father, whom you claim as your God, is the one who glorifies me.
 55 Though you do not know him, I know him.
 If I said I did not, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and obey his word.
 56 Your father Abraham rejoiced at the thought of seeing my day; he saw it and was glad.
” 57 “You are not yet fifty years old,” they said to him, “and you have seen Abraham!” 58 “Very truly I tell you,” Jesus answered, “before Abraham was born, I am!” 59 At this, they picked up stones to stone him, but Jesus hid himself, slipping away from the temple grounds.
 


