1 “‘On the first day of the seventh month hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work.
 It is a day for you to sound the trumpets.
 2 As an aroma pleasing to the Lord, offer a burnt offering of one young bull, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 3 With the bull offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah[a] of the finest flour mixed with olive oil; with the ram, two-tenths[b] ; 4 and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth.
[c] 5 Include one male goat as a sin offering[d] to make atonement for you.
 6 These are in addition to the monthly and daily burnt offerings with their grain offerings and drink offerings as specified.
 They are food offerings presented to the Lord, a pleasing aroma.
 The Day of Atonement 7 “‘On the tenth day of this seventh month hold a sacred assembly.
 You must deny yourselves[e] and do no work.
 8 Present as an aroma pleasing to the Lord a burnt offering of one young bull, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 9 With the bull offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, two-tenths; 10 and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth.
 11 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the sin offering for atonement and the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings.
 The Festival of Tabernacles 12 “‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work.
 Celebrate a festival to the Lord for seven days.
 13 Present as an aroma pleasing to the Lord a food offering consisting of a burnt offering of thirteen young bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 14 With each of the thirteen bulls offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with each of the two rams, two-tenths; 15 and with each of the fourteen lambs, one-tenth.
 16 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering.
 17 “‘On the second day offer twelve young bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 18 With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified.
 19 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering, and their drink offerings.
 20 “‘On the third day offer eleven bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 21 With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified.
 22 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering.
 23 “‘On the fourth day offer ten bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 24 With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified.
 25 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering.
 26 “‘On the fifth day offer nine bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 27 With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified.
 28 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering.
 29 “‘On the sixth day offer eight bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 30 With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified.
 31 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering.
 32 “‘On the seventh day offer seven bulls, two rams and fourteen male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 33 With the bulls, rams and lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified.
 34 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering.
 35 “‘On the eighth day hold a closing special assembly and do no regular work.
 36 Present as an aroma pleasing to the Lord a food offering consisting of a burnt offering of one bull, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 37 With the bull, the ram and the lambs, offer their grain offerings and drink offerings according to the number specified.
 38 Include one male goat as a sin offering, in addition to the regular burnt offering with its grain offering and drink offering.
 39 “‘In addition to what you vow and your freewill offerings, offer these to the Lord at your appointed festivals:
 your burnt offerings, grain offerings, drink offerings and fellowship offerings.
’” 40 Moses told the Israelites all that the Lord commanded him.
[f] 


