1 If any of you has a dispute with another, do you dare to take it before the ungodly for judgment instead of before the Lord’s people? 2 Or do you not know that the Lord’s people will judge the world? And if you are to judge the world, are you not competent to judge trivial cases? 3 Do you not know that we will judge angels? How much more the things of this life! 4 Therefore, if you have disputes about such matters, do you ask for a ruling from those whose way of life is scorned in the church? 5 I say this to shame you.
 Is it possible that there is nobody among you wise enough to judge a dispute between believers? 6 But instead, one brother takes another to court—and this in front of unbelievers! 7 The very fact that you have lawsuits among you means you have been completely defeated already.
 Why not rather be wronged? Why not rather be cheated? 8 Instead, you yourselves cheat and do wrong, and you do this to your brothers and sisters.
 9 Or do you not know that wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived:
 Neither the sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor men who have sex with men[a] 10 nor thieves nor the greedy nor drunkards nor slanderers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
 11 And that is what some of you were.
 But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.
 Sexual Immorality 12 “I have the right to do anything,” you say—but not everything is beneficial.
 “I have the right to do anything”—but I will not be mastered by anything.
 13 You say, “Food for the stomach and the stomach for food, and God will destroy them both.
” The body, however, is not meant for sexual immorality but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body.
 14 By his power God raised the Lord from the dead, and he will raise us also.
 15 Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ himself? Shall I then take the members of Christ and unite them with a prostitute? Never! 16 Do you not know that he who unites himself with a prostitute is one with her in body? For it is said, “The two will become one flesh.
”[b] 17 But whoever is united with the Lord is one with him in spirit.
[c] 18 Flee from sexual immorality.
 All other sins a person commits are outside the body, but whoever sins sexually, sins against their own body.
 19 Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own; 20 you were bought at a price.
 Therefore honor God with your bodies.
 


