1 These are the kings of the land whom the Israelites had defeated and whose territory they took over east of the Jordan, from the Arnon Gorge to Mount Hermon, including all the eastern side of the Arabah:
 2 Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon.
 He ruled from Aroer on the rim of the Arnon Gorge—from the middle of the gorge—to the Jabbok River, which is the border of the Ammonites.
 This included half of Gilead.
 3 He also ruled over the eastern Arabah from the Sea of Galilee[a] to the Sea of the Arabah (that is, the Dead Sea), to Beth Jeshimoth, and then southward below the slopes of Pisgah.
 4 And the territory of Og king of Bashan, one of the last of the Rephaites, who reigned in Ashtaroth and Edrei.
 5 He ruled over Mount Hermon, Salekah, all of Bashan to the border of the people of Geshur and Maakah, and half of Gilead to the border of Sihon king of Heshbon.
 6 Moses, the servant of the Lord, and the Israelites conquered them.
 And Moses the servant of the Lord gave their land to the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh to be their possession.
 7 Here is a list of the kings of the land that Joshua and the Israelites conquered on the west side of the Jordan, from Baal Gad in the Valley of Lebanon to Mount Halak, which rises toward Seir.
 Joshua gave their lands as an inheritance to the tribes of Israel according to their tribal divisions.
 8 The lands included the hill country, the western foothills, the Arabah, the mountain slopes, the wilderness and the Negev.
 These were the lands of the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites and Jebusites.
 These were the kings:
 9 the king of Jericho     one the king of Ai (near Bethel)     one 10 the king of Jerusalem     one the king of Hebron     one 11 the king of Jarmuth     one the king of Lachish     one 12 the king of Eglon     one the king of Gezer     one 13 the king of Debir     one the king of Geder     one 14 the king of Hormah     one the king of Arad     one 15 the king of Libnah     one the king of Adullam     one 16 the king of Makkedah     one the king of Bethel     one 17 the king of Tappuah     one the king of Hepher     one 18 the king of Aphek     one the king of Lasharon     one 19 the king of Madon     one the king of Hazor     one 20 the king of Shimron Meron     one the king of Akshaph     one 21 the king of Taanach     one the king of Megiddo     one 22 the king of Kedesh     one the king of Jokneam in Carmel     one 23 the king of Dor (in Naphoth Dor)     one the king of Goyim in Gilgal     one 24 the king of Tirzah     one 


