1 The Lord said to Moses, 2 “Give this command to the Israelites and say to them:
 ‘Make sure that you present to me at the appointed time my food offerings, as an aroma pleasing to me.
’ 3 Say to them:
 ‘This is the food offering you are to present to the Lord:
 two lambs a year old without defect, as a regular burnt offering each day.
 4 Offer one lamb in the morning and the other at twilight, 5 together with a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah[a] of the finest flour mixed with a quarter of a hin[b] of oil from pressed olives.
 6 This is the regular burnt offering instituted at Mount Sinai as a pleasing aroma, a food offering presented to the Lord.
 7 The accompanying drink offering is to be a quarter of a hin of fermented drink with each lamb.
 Pour out the drink offering to the Lord at the sanctuary.
 8 Offer the second lamb at twilight, along with the same kind of grain offering and drink offering that you offer in the morning.
 This is a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord.
 Sabbath Offerings 9 “‘On the Sabbath day, make an offering of two lambs a year old without defect, together with its drink offering and a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah[c] of the finest flour mixed with olive oil.
 10 This is the burnt offering for every Sabbath, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
 Monthly Offerings 11 “‘On the first of every month, present to the Lord a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 12 With each bull there is to be a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah[d] of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; 13 and with each lamb, a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil.
 This is for a burnt offering, a pleasing aroma, a food offering presented to the Lord.
 14 With each bull there is to be a drink offering of half a hin[e] of wine; with the ram, a third of a hin[f] ; and with each lamb, a quarter of a hin.
 This is the monthly burnt offering to be made at each new moon during the year.
 15 Besides the regular burnt offering with its drink offering, one male goat is to be presented to the Lord as a sin offering.
[g] The Passover 16 “‘On the fourteenth day of the first month the Lord’s Passover is to be held.
 17 On the fifteenth day of this month there is to be a festival; for seven days eat bread made without yeast.
 18 On the first day hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work.
 19 Present to the Lord a food offering consisting of a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram and seven male lambs a year old, all without defect.
 20 With each bull offer a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, two-tenths; 21 and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth.
 22 Include one male goat as a sin offering to make atonement for you.
 23 Offer these in addition to the regular morning burnt offering.
 24 In this way present the food offering every day for seven days as an aroma pleasing to the Lord; it is to be offered in addition to the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
 25 On the seventh day hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work.
 The Festival of Weeks 26 “‘On the day of firstfruits, when you present to the Lord an offering of new grain during the Festival of Weeks, hold a sacred assembly and do no regular work.
 27 Present a burnt offering of two young bulls, one ram and seven male lambs a year old as an aroma pleasing to the Lord.
 28 With each bull there is to be a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of the finest flour mixed with oil; with the ram, two-tenths; 29 and with each of the seven lambs, one-tenth.
 30 Include one male goat to make atonement for you.
 31 Offer these together with their drink offerings, in addition to the regular burnt offering and its grain offering.
 Be sure the animals are without defect.
 


