1 These were the sons of David born to him in Hebron:
 The firstborn was Amnon the son of Ahinoam of Jezreel; the second, Daniel the son of Abigail of Carmel; 2 the third, Absalom the son of Maakah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; 3 the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital; and the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah.
 4 These six were born to David in Hebron, where he reigned seven years and six months.
 David reigned in Jerusalem thirty-three years, 5 and these were the children born to him there:
 Shammua,[a] Shobab, Nathan and Solomon.
 These four were by Bathsheba[b] daughter of Ammiel.
 6 There were also Ibhar, Elishua,[c] Eliphelet, 7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, 8 Elishama, Eliada and Eliphelet—nine in all.
 9 All these were the sons of David, besides his sons by his concubines.
 And Tamar was their sister.
 The Kings of Judah 10 Solomon’s son was Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son, 11 Jehoram[d] his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son, 12 Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son, 13 Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son, 14 Amon his son, Josiah his son.
 15 The sons of Josiah:
 Johanan the firstborn, Jehoiakim the second son, Zedekiah the third, Shallum the fourth.
 16 The successors of Jehoiakim:
 Jehoiachin[e] his son, and Zedekiah.
 The Royal Line After the Exile 17 The descendants of Jehoiachin the captive:
 Shealtiel his son, 18 Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama and Nedabiah.
 19 The sons of Pedaiah:
 Zerubbabel and Shimei.
 The sons of Zerubbabel:
 Meshullam and Hananiah.
 Shelomith was their sister.
 20 There were also five others:
 Hashubah, Ohel, Berekiah, Hasadiah and Jushab-Hesed.
 21 The descendants of Hananiah:
 Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, and the sons of Rephaiah, of Arnan, of Obadiah and of Shekaniah.
 22 The descendants of Shekaniah:
 Shemaiah and his sons:
 Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah and Shaphat—six in all.
 23 The sons of Neariah:
 Elioenai, Hizkiah and Azrikam—three in all.
 24 The sons of Elioenai:
 Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah and Anani—seven in all.
 


