1 Now Sarai, Abram’s wife, had borne him no children.
 But she had an Egyptian slave named Hagar; 2 so she said to Abram, “The Lord has kept me from having children.
 Go, sleep with my slave; perhaps I can build a family through her.
” Abram agreed to what Sarai said.
 3 So after Abram had been living in Canaan ten years, Sarai his wife took her Egyptian slave Hagar and gave her to her husband to be his wife.
 4 He slept with Hagar, and she conceived.
 When she knew she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress.
 5 Then Sarai said to Abram, “You are responsible for the wrong I am suffering.
 I put my slave in your arms, and now that she knows she is pregnant, she despises me.
 May the Lord judge between you and me.
” 6 “Your slave is in your hands,” Abram said.
 “Do with her whatever you think best.
” Then Sarai mistreated Hagar; so she fled from her.
 7 The angel of the Lord found Hagar near a spring in the desert; it was the spring that is beside the road to Shur.
 8 And he said, “Hagar, slave of Sarai, where have you come from, and where are you going?” “I’m running away from my mistress Sarai,” she answered.
 9 Then the angel of the Lord told her, “Go back to your mistress and submit to her.
” 10 The angel added, “I will increase your descendants so much that they will be too numerous to count.
” 11 The angel of the Lord also said to her:
 “You are now pregnant and you will give birth to a son.
 You shall name him Ishmael,[a] for the Lord has heard of your misery.
 12 He will be a wild donkey of a man; his hand will be against everyone and everyone’s hand against him, and he will live in hostility toward[b] all his brothers.
” 13 She gave this name to the Lord who spoke to her:
 “You are the God who sees me,” for she said, “I have now seen[c] the One who sees me.
” 14 That is why the well was called Beer Lahai Roi[d] ; it is still there, between Kadesh and Bered.
 15 So Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram gave the name Ishmael to the son she had borne.
 16 Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore him Ishmael.
 


