1 “‘When anyone brings a grain offering to the Lord, their offering is to be of the finest flour.
 They are to pour olive oil on it, put incense on it 2 and take it to Aaron’s sons the priests.
 The priest shall take a handful of the flour and oil, together with all the incense, and burn this as a memorial[a] portion on the altar, a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord.
 3 The rest of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the food offerings presented to the Lord.
 4 “‘If you bring a grain offering baked in an oven, it is to consist of the finest flour:
 either thick loaves made without yeast and with olive oil mixed in or thin loaves made without yeast and brushed with olive oil.
 5 If your grain offering is prepared on a griddle, it is to be made of the finest flour mixed with oil, and without yeast.
 6 Crumble it and pour oil on it; it is a grain offering.
 7 If your grain offering is cooked in a pan, it is to be made of the finest flour and some olive oil.
 8 Bring the grain offering made of these things to the Lord; present it to the priest, who shall take it to the altar.
 9 He shall take out the memorial portion from the grain offering and burn it on the altar as a food offering, an aroma pleasing to the Lord.
 10 The rest of the grain offering belongs to Aaron and his sons; it is a most holy part of the food offerings presented to the Lord.
 11 “‘Every grain offering you bring to the Lord must be made without yeast, for you are not to burn any yeast or honey in a food offering presented to the Lord.
 12 You may bring them to the Lord as an offering of the firstfruits, but they are not to be offered on the altar as a pleasing aroma.
 13 Season all your grain offerings with salt.
 Do not leave the salt of the covenant of your God out of your grain offerings; add salt to all your offerings.
 14 “‘If you bring a grain offering of firstfruits to the Lord, offer crushed heads of new grain roasted in the fire.
 15 Put oil and incense on it; it is a grain offering.
 16 The priest shall burn the memorial portion of the crushed grain and the oil, together with all the incense, as a food offering presented to the Lord.
 


